well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we're going to talk about
context
the surrounding details of an event
we're going to do this because in the
united states we have a habit
of well ignoring the details
when it comes to international national
events and politics
we do this because we like to reinforce
our own beliefs
and it's a whole lot easier to spend
something if you don't look at the
details
and you just look at the action but
that's not the right way to do things
because we use context
all day every day in our normal lives
and that's actually how we determine
moral and societal value
since the teacher asked me to talk about
this
i'm uh we'll start off with an example
that's relevant to that group the action
the event
is a student looking at their neighbor's
desk
the context the surrounding details
determine whether or not that's good or
bad
if the student is looking at their
neighbor's desk to uh
get the page number so they can follow
along in the book well that's a good
thing
if they're doing it in the middle of a
test
well that's probably not a good thing
if i was to take this and smash through
your wall
in the middle of the night drag you out
of bed
unconscious and throw you into the back
of a vehicle
seems like it would be a bad thing right
and it would be unless i had just gotten
off a fire truck and i was putting you
in an ambulance
then it would be a good thing context
is what determines moral value societal
value
the surrounding details if you remove
those
you can't make an informed judgment
what's being compared right now are the
events
of uh capitol hill recently
and the events of this summer people are
doing it because the actions look the
same
they appear similar but what about
context what about the details
are they really the same
so this summer what was it about
why was it occurring
systemic racism a whole bunch of unjust
violence being visited upon people that
may
really not have deserved it and
an encroaching authoritarian state
there were other reasons but those were
the uniting ones
what about capitol hill
it was in furtherance of an
authoritarian state
it was about undermining the uh
the people's voice
because some people didn't like the
outcome and they had been misled by
people in power
those don't seem the same to me they may
to you
if you're one of those people who
believes that
violence is always wrong no matter what
then yeah do you
morally they're the same most people
aren't like that though
you cannot draw equivalencies
based solely on the action
i would imagine as high school students
that your textbook probably mentions the
civil rights movement
i would hope so anyway um
probably focuses on the 1960s and martin
luther king i have a dream and all that
very peaceful right charismatic southern
preacher
gave some speeches and everybody held
hands and kumbaya and all that
what's the reality there were hundreds
of riots
hundreds what's the context
a whole bunch of people who were
disenfranchised they didn't have a voice
in their government in their own lives
and it was institutionalized through law
i mean that situation sounds bad getting
rid of that would be
a societal good
you may look at the action that assisted
and acted as a catalyst for that and man
that's horrible
yeah maybe but context
gets to determine the rest of it
what about capitol hill literally the
opposite
it was about removing people's voice
from government
throwing out a whole bunch of votes
because people didn't like the outcome
and had been misled by a bunch of
powerful politicians
doesn't seem the same what about the
events of this summer
systemic racism and although
the civil rights movement in the 1960s
and 70s
it uh got rid a lot of the institutional
laws
that upheld that racism
the institutional memory is still there
institutions just like people they have
habits
and a lot of institutions are still in
the habit
of treating certain groups of people as
lesser
and therefore they end up with unjust
violence being visited upon them
that's a situation that getting rid of
probably a societal good right
again you may look at the action and say
man that's horrible i wish they wouldn't
have done that but you have to look at
the context
riots are language riots are the
language of the unheard
and i would point out that even
that peaceful charismatic southern
preacher
would not condemn a riot without
condemning
the source the context what created it
context is incredibly important if you
want to understand what's going on in
the world you cannot get that
by watching 60-second headline news
clips
you can't get it from footage you have
to know the details who what when where
why
the stuff behind it you can fill
volumes of books with information that
will never be in a newspaper
if you want to be effective in the world
you want to be relevant you want to
matter
you have to know the story behind the
news
and you're only going to get that
through examining the context
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day